# gov1005_finalproject_shiny
# In his 2016 presidential campaign, President Donald J. Trump railed against many of the trade agreements the United States of America is enrolled in, in addition to campaigning to rectify the unequal terms of trade and business between the United States and many of its global trading partners, notably China. 
# Following through on campaign promises, President Trump began confronting China on issues relating to trade and business on January 22, 2018, when he imposed safeguard restrictions for US solar panel and washing machine companies. These safeguard restrictions imposed tariffs on $8.5 billion in solar panel imports and $1.8 billion in washing machine imports, and they were met with challenge by South Korea and China, who claimed such restrictions violated the terms of the World Trade Organization.
# In potential retaliation on April 17, China levied duties of 178.6 percent on sorghum imports from the United States; these duties were removed about a month later.
# On March 1, the Trump Administration announced a 25 percent tariff on all steel imports and a 10 percent tariff on all aluminum imports. This step in President's Trump trade agenda—tariffs on steel and aluminum—was ostensibly not directed at China, as only 6 percent of imports covered derived from China. However, as the Trump Administration negotiated exemptions with its NAFTA and EU partners, among other countries, China was not exempted when the tariffs went into effect on March 23.
# On April 2, China retaliates with tariffs on aluminum waste and scrap, pork, fruits and nuts, together worth $2.4 billion in export value. 
# The third prong of Presidnet Trump's trade war pokes at China's unfair trade practices for technology and intellectual property. On April 3, President Trump threatens to impose 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese exports to the United States; the main industries listed are machinery, mechanical appliances, and electrical equipment. China reacts by threatening an equal measure: 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion of US exports to China. The main industries threatened are auto, aircraft and agriculture; in particular, US vehicle, aircraft, vessel and soybean exports. 
# On July 6, these threats became actions, with each nation reciprocating 25 percent tariffs on $34 billion in goods. On July 10, the United States announced its plan to impose 10 percent tariffs on an additional $200 billion in Chinese goods, and President Trump even threatened to impose tariffs on all imports from China.
# By August 23, both the United States and China had imposed 25 percent tariffs on $50 billion in imports.
# On September 24, 10 percent tariffs on an additional $200 billion in Chinese goods take effect; China responds by taxing an additional $60 billion in US goods. At this point, 12 percent of US imports were taxed and 8 percent of US exports faced tariffs abroad.
# On December 1, at the G-20 meeting in Buenos Aires, President Trump and President Xi agreed to halt the escalation of trade war as they negotiate over trade concerns.
# By this point, I have outlined the trade policy—arguably the trade war—between the United States and China over the past year. These back-and-forth impositions of tariffs surface the question: who will come out on top? 
# This project does not intend to definitively answer this question; rather, the data simply provides ample opportunity for deduction and prediction. 
# From the data, it is shown that US services exports to China are much greater and growing more quickly than Chinese services exports to the United States, while US goods exports to China are much smaller in magnitude than Chinese goods exports to the United States. Given that the tariffs imposed by both countries directly affect the exports of goods, not services, it appears that China's economic performance is more vulnerable than the United States. I make this assertion because the United States derives the majority of its trade value with China from the services exchange, which are more insulated than goods from these tariffs. 
# In other, simpler words, the US' heart of economic activity with China is the trade of services, and China's heart of economic activity with the United States is the trade of goods. The tariffs in place effectively penetrate China's economic heart, whereas the United States' economic heart is less directly hit, leading to the observation that the United States is less vulnerable to these tariffs.

